<!-- meta
{
  "node": {
    "label": "Luigi Compound Container API",
    "category": {
      "label": "API Reference",
      "collapsible": true
    },
    "metaData": {
      "categoryPosition": 6,
      "position": 4
    }
  }
}
meta -->

## Luigi Compound Container API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### LuigiCompoundContainer

Luigi Compound Container provides the possibility to insert multiple webcomponent-based microfrontends in one container

#### compoundConfig

The configuration for the compound microfrontend
Take a look at <https://docs.luigi-project.io/docs/navigation-parameters-reference/?section=compound>

#### deferInit

If set to true defers from initializing the microfronted automatically. In that case init() can be used

#### searchParams

The search parameters to be passed to the compound micro frontend.

#### pathParams

The path parameters to be passed to the compound micro frontend.

#### context

The context to be passed to the compound microfrontend

#### clientPermissions

The clientPermissions to be passed to the compound micro frontend.

#### userSettings

The user settings to be passed to the compound micro frontend

#### anchor

The anchor value to be passed to the compound micro frontend.

#### webcomponent

The following properties can be set for the web component object. By default, the web component is set to true.

##### Parameters

-   `WebComponentSettings` **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)?** 
    -   `WebComponentSettings.type` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** : string, like module.
    -   `WebComponentSettings.selfRegistered` **[boolean](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean)** : if it is true, the web component bundle will be added via script tag.
    -   `WebComponentSettings.tagName` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** : tag name where web component is added to DOM.

#### updateContext

Updates the context of the compound microfrontend

##### Parameters

-   `contextObj`  The context data

#### init

Manually triggers the micro frontend rendering process when using defer-init attribute
